Hello, everybody.
Thanks for coming.
Welcome to session 517,
Using Local and Push Notifications
on iOS and Mac OS X.
My name is Darryl Bleau.
I am the engineering manager for
the Apple Push Notification Service.
And I'm here to talk to you
today about notifications.
So here's some of the
topics we'll be covering.
First, we'll be giving an introduction
to notifications in general.
Then we'll be walking through
the push architecture,
some of the protocols,
and generally how the service works.
We'll then be talking to you about
local and push notifications on iOS,
followed by a talk on
notifications for Mac OS X.
After that, we'll follow through with
some best practices for using
notifications in general.
So, an introduction to notifications.
First of all, what is a notification?
Generally, a notification is user visible
information that reflects some event,
such as a service center letting you know
that your vehicle is ready for pickup.
Why should I use notifications?
One good reason to use notifications
is to ensure time-sensitive delivery
even when your app is not running.
For example, I have a stock alert.
How does using the push
service compare to,
say, having your app poll?
Well, push notifications are driven by
your server and are immediate,
if possible,
whereas polls are driven by your
app and are potentially latent.
In the example app shown here,
if we have a doorbell application that
lets you know someone's at your door,
you'd want to know that immediately,
and not five or ten minutes later.
Okay, so an overview of notifications,
specifically with push.
Notifications are sent
directly to a target device.
They are intended as
a tap on the shoulder.
And by that we mean they should
reflect some server-side state.
Also, push notifications feature a
store and forward mechanism.
Which means that notifications which
are sent to devices that are not
currently connected are stored and
delivered when the device reconnects.
When a device reconnects,
it will receive the latest
notification per application.
Notifications can also be
sent with an expiry time.
However, it is important to note that
the expiry only affects storage.
Notifications which are sent to devices
that are online at the time are delivered
regardless of any set expiry time.
Let's take a look at the push
notification service architecture.
The first component of the
push notification service
is a device of some type,
followed by your server and
the service in the middle.
Each device has an identifying token.
Your application will deliver
that token to your server.
And when your server has
a payload ready to send,
you'll combine those two
together in a notification
and send that to the service.
The push notification service
will then deliver to the device.
Let's take a closer look at
that protocol between the push
notification service and your server.
The protocol used is a binary protocol,
and there are two different
protocols that you can use
for sending a notification.
The first protocol
involves the device token,
the JSON payload,
and the command of zero.
We also prefix the token
length and payload length.
This makes up the entirety
of the first binary protocol.
The second protocol that you can
use is composed of much of the same,
except that we command as 1,
and we also insert.
An identifier and a set expiry time.
Using the set second protocol is how you
can set an expiry time for your message.
Remember that again the
expiry affects the storage.
If the device is online at the time,
notification will be sent
regardless of any set expiry.
All right,
so what makes up a message payload?
Message payloads are
strict RFC 4627 JSON.
An example is as depicted here.
JSON is human readable,
it's relatively compact,
and is easily mapped to an NSDictionary.
When constructing your payloads, though,
it's important to remember that
there is a 256-byte maximum.
Also note that you can make use of keys
outside of the APS key for your own use.
So some sizing considerations.
If we have JSON as depicted here,
with new lines and spaces,
much as you would type it
out to be human readable,
this particular set of
JSON would be 150 bytes.
However,
if we strip all that white space,
we can get the same
notification down to 96 bytes.
This is generally a good idea.
All right, so we've spoken a little
bit about the server-side
aspects of push notifications.
We're now going to take a closer
look at the client side aspects,
and for that, I'm going to invite up
onto stage my colleague,
James Callender.
My name is James Callender.
I'm an iOS engineer.
I want to talk to you today a
little bit about the push and
local notification API for iOS.
So I'm going to start
with push notifications,
specifically how to register
to receive push notifications,
how to construct a payload,
and how iOS acts on your behalf so your
application doesn't have to be running.
But first, why would you want to
use push notifications?
Well, some examples would be
for social networking.
Push is a great way to update your
friends about your current status
or remind them of upcoming events.
Second is for current events
like sports scores and news.
Push is a great way of
sending information to users
about events as they occur.
Finally,
I've seen some great examples of push
being used in games to alert players
when it's their turn to take a move.
Now you notice this is sort of
the new banner style notification.
I'll be presenting with both banner
and the old alert style notification.
So when would you not want
to use push notifications?
You don't want to use push to deliver any
kind of critical application information.
What do I mean by that?
Imagine that you're writing an app that
delivers some sort of content to a user,
sort of like an email.
You don't want to rely on push
to be your primary communication
channel to your application.
There's a number of reasons for this.
Primarily, push may not be available.
The user may be moving in
and out of service areas,
or they could have disabled
push altogether for your app.
They also may ignore the notification
and launch your app at some later point,
and you'll never actually
receive the push payload.
Because of this,
it's always a better idea to
pull data from your server while
your application is running.
So say that you have decided you want
to use push notifications in your app.
How do you get started doing that?
The first thing to do is to register
using the UI application API.
A good time to do this is that the
application did finish launching
with options delegate callback.
You'll want to call the
register for remote notification
types on the UI application
object and pass in the type of
notifications you wish to receive.
In this case, we're passing in sound
types and badge types.
So once you've registered with
iOS to receive push notifications,
one of two things will happen
depending on your app's current state.
First -- oh, sorry.
One of two things will happen when you
register depending on various things.
So first, if you successfully register,
you'll get the delegate callback,
application did register for remote
notifications with device token.
You'll get an NSData object,
which you'll want to pass up to your
server and associate that token with the
user's device and possibly an account.
Alternatively, if you fail to register,
you'll get the application did
fail to register for remote
notifications with error.
At this point,
you might want to check your
provisioning profile and make sure
you have the correct entitlements.
Also note that push is not
supported in the simulator,
but your application should be able to
handle this case gracefully in the event
that you're testing in the simulator.
So I want to talk just a little
bit about the device token.
The device token is for uniquely
identifying a particular device.
However, this is separate from the
UDID of that particular device.
The main difference is that the
device token can actually change.
Because of this,
it's always a good idea to call the
registration API on every single launch.
You don't want to depend on a
cached copy of the device token,
either on the device or on the server.
So now we're ready to begin
constructing our push notification.
As Darryl said, a push notification is
composed of a JSON object,
the heart of which is the APS dictionary.
Here you'll be able to specify
the appearance of the notification
by indicating an alert,
a badge, and a sound,
as well as you'll be able to use the
rest of the payload for any kind of
application-specific information.
So the first style of
notification is a badge.
To set a badge in your application,
you want to use the badge key
and indicate a positive integer.
Because badges are meant to reflect
the current state of your application,
simply omitting the badge
key will clear the badge.
The next one is the sound.
To have a custom sound
for your notification,
all you need to do is specify a name of
a sound file in your application bundle.
Alternatively,
if you want to use the default
sound for notifications,
you can use the string default.
Note that vibration of the
device is handled automatically
by the user's settings.
Now, the simplest form of an
alert is just a basic string.
However, you can customize an alert
using the dictionary form,
which will let you use the
localizable.strings file to localize
the alert into the user's set language.
You want to use the--
for the low key arg,
you want to use the key and the key value
pair in the localizable dot strings.
And you can also specify a custom
localized action for the notification.
Now,
this notification is the old style modal,
which is still supported in
iOS 5 based on user settings.
But if your notification
appears as a banner,
the action button will appear when
you swipe while at the lock screen.
So you've dispatched your
notification from your server,
and you're ready to
receive it on the device.
And one of two things will happen
depending on the state of your app.
If your app's running,
you'll get the application did receive
remote notification callback with the
user info dictionary that reflects
the contents of the JSON object.
However,
if your application is not running,
but the user taps on the notification,
you'll get the application did finish
launching with options delegate callback,
at which point you can extract
the notification from the
launch options dictionary.
So that's about it for
push notifications.
The next thing I want to talk
about is local notifications.
I want to talk about how they're similar,
how to construct a local notification,
and again, how iOS acts on your behalf.
So how are local notifications
and push notifications similar?
Well, for one,
they appear the same to the user.
They can have the same
combination of badges,
alerts, and sounds.
The other similarity
is that in both cases,
iOS acts on your behalf,
so your application doesn't
need to be running for the
user to get a notification.
So how are they different?
Well, push notifications
originate from a server.
So the device needs to have
a network connection to
actually get the notification.
Local notifications
originate from the app.
They're scheduled and dispatched
entirely on the device without
the need for a network connection.
Also, push notifications are single shot.
You send them once with the server,
and if possible,
will deliver that one notification
immediately to your device.
On the other hand,
local notifications can be scheduled
for some point in the future and
optionally marked as repeating.
So, when would you want to
use local notifications?
One example is an alarm clock for some
kind of alert that you want to have
happen at the same time every day,
or a reminder for some kind of
upcoming event like a vacation.
Also, for users of our multitasking
and location-aware APIs,
push notifications are a great
way of alerting the user about
some kind of location-based event,
like a nearby friend,
and give them the option of
bringing your app to the foreground.
When don't you want to
use local notifications?
For any kind of general alert and error
that you want to show to your users
while your application is running,
it's better to use a more
general use API like UILertView.
Also, for calendar-based events,
consider using the Event Kit API.
This will let you schedule an event
in the user's calendar and optionally
attach some sort of alert to that event.
So if you've decided to
use local notifications,
you can begin constructing
the notification.
To do that, we want to use the UI local
notification object.
This includes properties
for setting a badge,
an alert, and a sound.
As well as those
properties for scheduling,
optionally marking it as repeating,
And again,
we have a user info dictionary to
attach any kind of meta information
you want to use for your app.
I'll start by talking about badges,
alerts, and sounds.
To set a badge,
use the application icon badge number
property on your UI local notification
object and set it to a positive integer.
Note, however, that in this case,
setting this value to zero will
not actually clear the badge.
Instead,
you'll want to use the UI application
property application icon badge number
while your application is running.
The next is alerts.
Again, the basic form of an
alert is just a string.
You can use the alert body and
assign it to a basic NSString.
Optionally,
you can set the alert action property
and mark it as having a custom action by
setting the has action property to true.
And again, you can localize your alerts.
Use the same kind of mechanism.
Use the key part of the key value
pair in the localizable.strings file.
This will allow iOS to localize
your application at the time
that the notification is
actually displayed to the user.
So the other thing that you can do with
a local notification is actually set
a custom launch image for your app.
You might know that iOS lets you set
an image to be displayed to the user
while your application is launching.
So you can set the alert launch
image property to change this.
So in this case,
This app,
the default launch image is just a
blank image that will eventually want to
populate with some kind of menu system.
However,
by setting the alert launch image,
when the user taps the action button,
It'll display a custom image that might
better reflect the location in your app
that the notification is bringing you.
In this case,
we're saying that we're ready
to watch a baseball game,
and the launch image
is a baseball triangle.
So the last property you can
set for the appearance of the
notification is the sound.
To set this,
you use the sound name property.
Again, just as with push,
you can use the default sound name by
setting the sound name property to the
UI local notification default sound name.
So now that we've covered
how to customize the look and
feel of your notification,
we'll talk about how to schedule
it and mark it as repeating.
But first, I want to talk about
different kinds of dates.
Specifically,
I want to talk about this notion
of universal time versus wall time.
Universal time is the idea that
events occur at the same instant no
matter where you are in the world.
This is essentially just
a single NSDate object.
This is good for things like a
conference call where some of the
participants are in different time zones,
or the time at which
a stock market closes.
The other kind of time is wall time.
This is basically time that occurs at
different relative points depending
on where you are in the world.
So essentially you're combining an
NSDate object with an NSTimeZone object.
Examples of this is an alarm
clock that goes off at 9:00 a.m.
or the time at which a network
broadcasts a television show.
So once you've decided that your
notification is more of a universal
time or wall time notification,
you're ready to actually schedule it.
To do this, use the fire date and
time zone properties.
Note here that we've specified a number
of seconds relative to the current time.
This might be okay if what we want
is some sort of countdown timer.
But if our intention was to
display the notification,
say,
at the same hour as this time tomorrow,
that might not work if tomorrow,
for instance, is the beginning or end
of daylight savings time.
Your notification will be delivered
either an hour early or an hour late.
To get around this,
we can use the NSDateComponents
object and set a custom day,
month, year, and hour,
and have it do the work of calculating
the appropriate NSDate object.
So the last thing you can do is
schedule a notification as repeating
at some sort of regular interval.
To do this, use the repeat interval and
repeat calendar properties.
In this example,
we're using the NSDay calendar
unit to have it repeat once a day.
Alternatively, we could use another unit,
like NSWeek calendar unit,
and have it repeat once a week.
Note that I'm keeping the repeat calendar
at whatever default calendar is set,
but you want to make note of this,
because not all users actually
use the Gregorian calendar,
and your repeat interval might be
different depending on the type
of calendar that's currently set.
So you just want to take care
and make sure that you're
taking that into consideration.
So the last part of a local notification
is the user info dictionary.
This is a great place to put
any kind of meta information
for your local notification,
like maybe an identifier
for that notification,
or instructions to your app on where
to bring you once you've been launched.
So now that you've
constructed your notification,
you're ready to schedule it with iOS.
To do this, we have a couple of methods.
You'll want to use the
UI application methods,
schedule local notification,
to schedule a notification
you just created.
Or if you want to cancel a notification
that you've already scheduled,
you can use the cancel
local notification method.
Also, for background apps,
we have the present
local notification now,
which ignores the fire date property
and displays the notification
immediately to the user and gives
them the option of bringing your
application to the foreground.
So again,
the notification has been dispatched,
and we're ready to receive it.
Just as with push,
if your application is running,
you'll get the application did
receive local notification.
The important thing to
remember is that in this case,
iOS will not actually
perform any of the badging,
sounds, or alerts.
You'll want to take the appropriate
action that's specific for your
app once you get the notification.
And if your application is not running,
you'll get the application did finish
launching with options callback.
And again,
you can extract the notification
from the launch options dictionary.
That's actually all there is to
push and local notifications on iOS.
Next, I'd like to call up my colleague,
Jason, to talk about push
notifications on Mac OS X.
All right, good afternoon, everybody.
My name is Jason Thorpe.
I'm an engineering manager for Mac OS X.
And I'm going to tell you all about
how to implement push notifications
for your applications on the Mac.
So the first thing to be aware of is the
push notification support we've added
to the Mac and Lion is very similar to
the push notification support you're
probably all familiar with in iOS.
So the AppKit API is as identical
to the UIKit API as is possible.
And the notifications are delivered
to applications that are running via
the NSApplicationDelegate object.
And then finally,
if your application is not running,
your icons will be badged in
the dock and in Launchpad.
But there are a few differences.
So first of all,
the Mac only supports badges,
not alerts or sounds.
And because of that, there's no alerts,
your application can't be launched
in response to a push notification.
Since we are only supporting badges,
which are potentially a lot
less annoying than having your
phone beep at you and whatnot,
there's no system-wide preferences
for push notifications on the Mac.
And we don't have the iOS
style local notifications API.
Local notifications on the
Mac are done with a different API.
So there is some server-side impact.
So because your application -- so
if you have an application for which
you have an iOS and a Mac version,
they're going to have different
application identifiers,
different bundle IDs.
And because of this,
you're going to have two different
push provider certificates.
So when you register your
device token with your server,
you're going to need to identify what
kind of client you're coming from.
And the best or the easiest way to
do this is probably just to send
either your application identifier
or your bundle identifier up to the
server when you register your token.
But that's really about it.
Even though we don't support the
alert and sound notification types,
you can construct your payload
once and send it to all the
devices that are registered,
and the Mac will simply
ignore the alert and sound.
So some developer considerations
that are new to the Mac.
So the push notifications require your
application to be correctly entitled.
And to do that, you're going to need a
provisioning profile from the
Apple Developer Certificate Utility.
If you're already developing
applications for iOS,
this should be familiar to you.
And that provisioning profile will
need to be associated with your
Xcode project and then installed on
any Macs that are going to run the
development version of the application.
And then next,
only applications that are distributed
through the Mac App Store can use
the Apple Push Notification service.
Okay, so let's get into the API details.
So as on iOS, the best time to register
your token is when you get the
application did finish launching
NS application delegate callback.
You'll call the register for
remote notification types method
in NS application and then
register in this case for badges.
So when you register for notification,
just like on iOS, you'll get one of two
different callbacks.
The first one would be,
did register for remote
notifications with device token?
And this is when you'll send your
device token to the APNS -- sorry,
to your server.
And again,
make sure to distinguish between the iOS
and the Mac version of your application.
And then when you fail to register,
you would get, did fail to register for
notifications with error.
And in this case,
you'll want to check your
provisioning profile to ensure
your app is correctly entitled.
So getting the payload is
pretty straightforward.
You'll get the did receive
remote notification callback
on your application delegate.
And again, I just want to point out that
you may get alert and sound
keys within the APS dictionary,
but probably the best practice is for
your application to simply ignore those,
since Doc won't display
them on your behalf.
And that's it.
That's really the only differences
for push notifications for
the Mac as compared to iOS.
And to show you how this all works,
I'd like to invite Darrin Jewell
up here to give you a quick demo.
Darrin?
Hi there.
My name is Darrin,
and I'm going to bring you through
an Xcode demo of how to add push
notifications to an application.
So let me switch over to our
Demo.
Okay, so I'd like to introduce Cumulus.
Cumulus is a simple file sharing
application for those of you
who can't use AirDrop yet.
And Cumulus is great.
Your friends can send you files,
and you can see and browse the
files that your friends have
sent you and share them that way.
Unfortunately,
it has one significant problem,
and that's that you have to
hit the refresh button to see
what files are waiting for you.
So you're sitting here pushing
the refresh button all day.
We're going to show you
how you can add push,
which we recently added to the Mac,
to this application.
It's pretty easy.
And we'll walk you through the code.
We'll show you some pitfalls
you might find along the way.
And we'll bring that up in Xcode.
So let me clear out the file here.
We'll exit our little program.
And we'll bring up the application
delegate class in Xcode.
So this is the NSApplicationDelegate
class for Cumulus,
and we're going to show you you
need to add one new function
call to your application,
and we're going to implement three
methods that Jason just covered
that you need to handle push events
as they arrive in your application.
So the first one we're going to show
you is the application did finish
launching method in your delegate.
Your delegate probably already has this.
In this case, we just create and open the
first window on the screen.
So the call that we're going
to add to this delegate is the
NSApplicationRegisterForRemoteNot
ificationTypes call.
And we're going to give it the
NSRemoteNotificationTypeBadge constant
to indicate that when we're not running,
we would like to be badged in the dock.
So we'll just uncomment the call
that I've already put in here now.
OK.
So the next function, okay,
now we're going to cover the three
methods that you'll want to implement
new to your application to handle
push events in your application.
First one,
application did register for remote
notifications with device token.
This method will be called
when your application
successfully registers for push.
You'll be handed an NSData object
with a device token.
That device token represents
the unique instance of your
application running on this Mac.
You'll want to send that to your server,
in this case the Cumulus server.
We send it up there with the
MyWindowControllerSendProvider
device token.
We'll let the window controller
handle sending it upstream
to the Cumulus server.
And we also log it here so
we can see what's going on.
Okay, so now that's when your application
successfully registered for push,
but when your application does not
successfully register for push,
The application will call the
application did fail to register for
remote notifications with error call.
This indicates something went
wrong registering for push.
Most likely, if you're under development
and you get this call,
you want to check that your
application is properly entitled,
because if you're not entitled,
this will be called with an error.
And we'll show you how to
add entitlements to your
application in a minute,
and what happens when they don't.
And finally, in order to actually
handle incoming pushes,
you'll want to implement application
did receive remote notification,
and you'll be handed a dictionary,
an NSDictionary,
which corresponds to the JSON payload
that was sent by your server
through the Apple Push service.
We log it here so you can see it.
And in this case,
we just take the same action as
if the user had hit the refresh
button every time we get a push.
So let me show you now what happens
when you actually run the app.
So now we'll compile,
launch our application here.
We'll bring up the window full screen.
So now you'll see that
because we weren't entitled,
we didn't compile with a
provisioning profile yet,
the application did fail to register for
remote notifications with error method.
It's a mouthful,
but it gets called indicating that
your application was not entitled.
So we need to take the
provisioning profile here,
which you downloaded from the
Mac Developer Certificate Utility,
as Jason discussed,
and we'll add that into Xcode so that
when you compile your application,
it's bundled in to your application
for submission to the Mac App Store,
and your application is
signed with the entitlements
contained inside this profile.
In order to do that,
you open the Organizer panel in Xcode.
Those of you who have worked
with iOS have probably gone
through this process before.
It's new to Mac developers.
But we go to the Organizer
panel under Devices,
Provisioning Profiles.
You can either import it
with this import button here,
or what we're going to do right
now is drag it into Xcode.
So that's how you add the provisioning
profile for this application into Xcode.
We'll close that window.
So now we can recompile.
First we'll stop the
one that's running here,
so we're done with that one.
And we'll recompile and
run the application again.
This time the application's entitled.
Now you'll notice that
when we try to run it,
it drops immediately into the debugger.
Now that your application is entitled,
it needs permission to run
on this specific system.
In order to do that,
any system that wants to run your
development application has to have
the provisioning profile installed,
or else it will be refused
to be allowed to run.
So once you submit your app
to the Mac App Store and
your users download the app,
they won't need to deal with the
provisioning profile anymore.
It'll just run because the
Mac App Store has signed it.
But if you want your testers,
your fellow developers to be
able to run the application,
they need to have a provisioning
profile installed in their system,
and that provisioning profile has
to match the hardware UUID of the
machine they're trying to run it on.
So when you go to the
developer certificate utility,
you'll have to specify what machines you
wish to run it on to get your profile.
So we'll show you how to
add that to your system.
So now if you double
click on the profile,
which we have here on the desktop
in the upper right hand corner,
It'll bring up your
system preferences window.
We have a new profiles pane.
And ask if you want to
install this profile.
It shows you that the signature
of the profile is verified,
and asks you if you're ready to install.
So we'll say yes,
we'd like to install our
provisioning profile.
Since it's being installed system-wide,
it's asking us for your password.
Okay,
now the provisioning profile for our
Cumulus application is installed.
You should be able to run on this Mac.
Close that.
We've already stopped the program.
So now we'll relaunch.
Okay, now you'll notice the program
successfully launched,
and we got the application did
register for remote notifications
with device token call.
So this indicates that the application
successfully registered for push.
It gave us the device token,
which we have to send
to our cumulus server,
which contains the files
we want to download.
And so we've done that.
And now when your friends send you files,
they show immediately
in your application.
You no longer have to
hit the refresh button.
So you'll notice here that
the application did receive
remote notification was called.
And we got the payload here.
Is it MS dictionary which we logged,
showing that the server has
one file waiting for us.
We also refreshed our contents of the
server so we could see the file in
the file browser here that we have
ready waiting for us to download.
So finally,
final feature of push on the Mac,
we'll clear this out and exit it.
When you quit your program,
and even when your
program is not running,
notice it's no longer running,
when your friend sends you files,
You get a badge icon in the dock
indicating that you have files waiting
for you on the server even though
the application is not running.
The dock will badge on your behalf.
Your users will know that they
need to launch the application.
They can browse and see the
files that are waiting for them.
So hopefully you'll find that adding push
notifications on the Mac is pretty easy.
It's the same as iOS,
and we're looking forward to
seeing what you will do with
push notifications on the Mac.
So with that, I'll hand the presentation
back to Darryl,
who will talk about some best practices
in implementing your push system.
Thank you.
All right,
let's talk about some of the best
practices for using notifications.
One thing to remember is that your
app should pull data from your
server when your app is running.
The reason for this is that the
push service may be turned off,
as the user may have disabled
notification for your app or globally.
However,
your app should continue to be fully
functional even without the push service.
Also remember to upload the
device token to your server often.
You want to make sure that the token
that your server has matches the token of
every particular user for their device.
Finally,
don't annoy your users with alerts.
You want to make sure that you're sending
notifications that your users care about.
And if your application
doesn't need to send an alert,
don't send them.
Right on cue.
All right,
let's talk a little bit about badges.
Badges are the primary notification type.
A badge represents some information
that the user can take action on.
So you're sending a badge because
you want the user to click on
the application and do something.
So remember to keep a server-side count,
and this is what the
badge should reflect.
You'll want to test the logic that
you use for the server-side count.
Remember that the count can
change while your app is inactive.
Notifications can arrive
while your app is active.
And in every scenario,
you want to ensure that the
badge count that you're sending
represents accurate information.
For more information on push in all
of the various frameworks and APIs,
there are several options.
We can go to our evangelist, Bill Dudney.
You can definitely visit
the Apple Developer Forums.
And for a sample application
representing notifications on the Mac,
there is a sample app at the URL listed.
I'm going to leave this up for a second,
if any of you want to
write down these URLs.
All right, that concludes our session.
Thank you all for coming.